.. _structure:

Project structure
=================

.. code:: yaml

    - apps
        - conf
        - continuous-deployment
        - healthchecks
        - repos-enabled
        - www-data
    - containers
    - data
    - hooks.d

Apps
----

Most important section, here you put application definitions, configure healthchecks for monitoring, repositories for versioning of applications in volumes.

**conf:**

.. code:: yaml

    docker-compose files.
    ".disabled" suffix disables a file.

    To enable/disable use "make config_enable APP_NAME=smtp"
    To list enabled: "make ✗ make list_configs_enabled"
    Listing disabled: "make list_configs_disabled"

**continuous-deployment:**

Allows to configure a thin-deployer which can take incoming webhooks and turn into the commands.
Example scenario: When a push to docker registry happens, then a HTTP request is made, thin-deployer runs a command that updates the container.

**healthchecks:**

Status monitoring, in "checks" you can add custom health check functions (scripts in any language), in "configured" you define usage and parameters.
The environment uses infracheck_ application for healthchecking.

.. _infracheck: https://git.riotkit.org/infracheck

**repos-enabled and www-data:**

If you have applications that are mounted as volume in a generic container, you may manage them and deploy new versions using the application-as-volume feature.

Containers
----------

The containers directory contains data that is added to containers as a volume.
The difference from "data" directory is, that "containers" is kept in git, it's a place for configuration files.
"data" is mostly the binary data generated by applications.

Data
----

Binary data generated by containers, eg. MySQL tables, logs.
Mounted as volume to applications. Not kept in git.

Hooks.d
-------

A place to keep scripts that launch before environment starts, stops etc.

.. code:: yaml

    - deployment-pre: Runs on "make deployment_pre", used by Ansible role
    - post-down: Runs when environment stops
    - post-start: Runs right after "make start"
